I actually had the pharmacist tell me once there was an issue with
payment that if I didn't spend all my money on drugs I'd be
able to afford my medicine. Well, hi, my name is Brian Glaspol, I'm 28.
I'm currently three years clean from a fentanyl addiction.
I was born and raised in Richmond but I've been all over the
Lower Mainland. Yeah, I actually took up the complaint of that incident
to the head pharmacist and he was very apologetic. He reassured me that
he would actually switch his shifts and come in on the weekend to
be the one dispensing my dose. And even just the act of using
my name and asking how was I doing, how my day is going,
what kind of plans I may have had for the weekend or anything
like that made me feel like a person instead of just another addict
that they had to deal with. I've spent over 13 years using various
substances, never thought there was any addiction issue.
I carry so much stigma upon myself that I never felt like I
deserved to get help so I never accessed the health care system.
And the few times that I have gone and reached out for help
in the health care system, I've been judged where it made me feel
unworthy to even be there. Like I was just another problem that the
health care industry had to deal with. Addicts and people in mental health,
we carry enough, so much internal stigma with ourselves to begin with that
it's important that we address that firsthand then we can address how health
care providers can help decrease stigma as well.
I got involved early in my recovery with the community action team here
in Richmond and we were creating a sense of belonging.
I've lost so many friends and family and loved ones to substance use,
mental health issues and I know that if stigma wasn't the root cause
of a lot of the pain and suffering that it would have made
it a lot easier for my loved ones to access health care. I
hope that the health care providers learn to just treat people as people.
At the end of the day, you're dealing with people, you're not just
dealing with paperwork. The differences from the downtown east side to Richmond
is people with substance use problems and mental health seems to hide it
a lot better. So early in my recovery I got into this work
of decreasing stigma and creating a sense of belonging for everyone.
I was still early in my recovery phase
and I wasn't sure if I really wanted to get clean or not
but finding the groups that I got to be a part of thankfully
really helped me open my eyes. So that really motivated me to learn
and educate myself about stigma and how people internalize it and externalize
it so that way I can better help everyone in decreasing stigma and creating
a sense of belonging.